
Introduction 

Database management is done using a language called SQL, or Structured Query Language. SQL is made up of declarative statements and commands that give the database instructions so it can carry out tasks.
You may construct tables in databases, add to and modify enormous amounts of data, search through it to discover a specific piece of information quickly, or completely remove tables using SQL instructions.
In this article, we’ll examine 50+ SQL statements for beginners and show you how to use them to successfully query a database, or ask for a specific piece of data.

Category A 

CREATE 
Create is used for creating the new table in the dataset.

BEGIN/ END
They are used for writing compound statements.

INSERT
it is used to insert one or more rows to the table in the database.





SELECT *
It selects all the elements present in the table.





We can also select multiple columns by using column names.





Computed Columns (* , /)
Following operations can be performed using the operators.

*





/


NULL
It is used to check whether the row contains any null value or not.


CONCAT 
It is used to concatenate two string values in the table.


DISTINCT 
It is used to ensure that the values in the table are unique and not duplicated.



WHERE NOT
NOT is used just to negate any given statement.



















Category B

BETWEEN
It is used to specify the area or range between two values.




IN
In is used to specify that the given targeted value is present in the set or not.





LIKE 
It is used to match the pattern in the table.




COMPARISON OPERATORS (=,>)
They are used to perform various comparisons in the table using the conditions.

=






>

















Category C 

AND
It is used to combine the boolean expressions and executes if both of them are true.



OR
It is used to test various conditions and execute even if any one condition is true. 




NOT 
NOT is used just to negate any given statement.




Combination of logical operators


ORDER BY
It is used to arrange the elements of the column in ascending or decending order.



MIN 
It is used to find the minimum value for the particular column.





MAX
It is used to find the maximum value for the particular column.







COUNT
It is used to count the number of elements in the specific column.




SUM
It executes the sum of the elements present in the column 




























Category D 

GROUP BY
It is used to group the elements which have the same values in one or more columns.






GROUP BY HAVING
It is used to group the elements which have the same values in one or more columns followed by a condition which needs to be true.





Build In Functions

UPPER
It converts all the letters to the uppercase.




LOWER
It converts all the letters to the lowercase.




SUBSTR
It executes the position of the character present in the string.





LISTAGG
It uses delimiter to convert multiple row data to the single list of the values.




INITCAP
It is used to capatilize the first letter of the string.




CEIL
It is used to round off the value and use the smallest or equal round of that value.








Category E

CREATING TABLE 2 FOR JOIN OPERATIONS


LEFT OUTER JOIN
It returns all the records of the left (table 1) and matching record from table2(right)







RIGHT OUTER JOIN  
It returns all the records of the right (table 2) and matching record from table1(left)



FULL JOIN 
It is used to join the results obtained from right and left joins.










CROSS JOIN 
It is used to execute the cartesian product of the rows from the table.


Category F

Single row subqueries



EXISTS
It is used to check whether the record is present in the subquery or not.







NOT EXISTS
It is the opposite of EXISTS. It is used to check whether the record is absent in the subquery.It returns true if the record is not present.














Advanced Category 

UNION
It is used to combine two or more selected elements together.








ANY 
It is used to specify the value which is less or greater than the values in the subquery.




COMMIT
It stores all the changes that are performed by any transaction in a database.





ROLLBACK
It is used to undo the transactions in the database which are not saved in it.







NESTED SUBQUERIES

1.








2.



INDEX
It is created to find the exact location of the data without consuming much time.




ALTER
It is used to add/delete/modify the columns in the table.






TO DELETE ALL ROWS



TO DELETE TABLE





Conclusion
Sql is commonly used everywhere in the industry. We can write queries in order to perform operations with the data stored in the database.
In this project 50+ queries are performed for different data manipulation purposes.


Reference 
Oracle Help Centre - DataBase SQL Language Reference

